                   The Kermit Project
                   New York City USA
				   kermit@kermitproject.org
                   …since 1981

Open Source Kermit 95 for Windows Progress Report

   In 2013 two programmers, working mostly independently from each other,
   attempted to resurrect Kermit 95 communications software as an Open
   Source application. Missing modules were excavated and numerous problems
   overcome, and each was finally able to build a working version. But much
   work remains to be done.

   It is unfortunate that the work was not completed, but hopefully by
   revealing what has been done so far, someone else can combine the two
   branches and do some of the tasks that remain (this is not a complete
   list):

     * A new installer is needed.
     * A new name might be needed.
     * There is no way to carry forward the K95 Dialer so it will be dropped
       and K95, if it is to have a new life, will be as text-only application
       with a few GUI dialogs. However, it is likely that any new release of
       K95 will still work with the (commercial) K95 2.1.3 Dialer if you
       happen to have a copy.
     * SSL/TLS security needs to be brought up to date.
     * SSH support must be totally redone since the K95's original SSH
       module, circa 2002, is no longer secure; this might be accomplished
       using libssh or libssh2 or PuTTY's plink module; each has its 
	   attractions and drawbacks.
	   UPDATE: As of October 19th 2015, another likely candidate would
	   be Microsoft's OpenSSH for Windows.
     * XYZMODEM file-transfer protocol will need to be totally redone for
       Open Source (the K95 XYZMODEM code was licensed from a company).
       Failing that, there will be no XYZMODEM support.
     * Kerberos security needs to be changed from MIT to Heimdal, or just
       dropped.
     * The result needs to support large files.
     * The result needs to be buildable with GCC or other open compiler
       rather than require proprietary Microsoft tools.
     * The result will rejoin the main C-Kermit development branch as one
       of the platforms for which C-Kermit is built.

  What is Kermit 95?

   Kermit 95 is Kermit software for Microsoft Windows: briefly, terminal
   emulation, file transfer, and scripting of communication tasks over a
   variety of communication methods (serial port, modem, Telnet, SSH, etc).

     Let me state it another way:  K95 is probably the best terminal
     emulator ever, and also the most powerful in terms of automation and
     customization features. It is designed and best suited for people who
     are comfortable with text-mode user interfaces and command languages,
     and who are good typists, because you can do just about everything in
     K95 without your fingers ever leaving the keyboard. It has its own
     built-in programming language (similar to Unix shell scripting, but
     different) so you can easily automate repetitive or error-prone tasks.
     It has unparalleled key mapping and keystroke macro capabilities. It
     supports terminal emulation in many languages (English, Spanish, German,
     Icelandic, Greek, Russian, Vietnamese... see for yourself) and
     almost every known character encoding (ASCII, ISO646, ISO8859, UTF-8, PC
     and Windows code pages, and on and on). And it supports inline
     transfer of both text and binary files in both directions within your
     terminal session. It takes some effort to learn how to use it, but that
     effort is well spent because you will be orders-of-magnitude more
     efficient in your online sessions.

   The Columbia University Kermit Project was a pioneer in open software,
   founded years before the GNU project or Free Software Foundation. Our
   software source code was openly published and shared long before the term
   Open Source was invented. Kermit 95 was the Kermit Project's first and
   only commercial product, developed and published to generate income to
   help fund the project and its noncommercial products at a time when the
   Kermit Project had to pay for itself or disappear.

   As of July 1, 2011, there is no more Kermit Project at Columbia
   University, and all Kermit software has become Open Source. The last K95
   release was version 2.1.3 in 2003 but it has not yet been released in
   usable (executable) form because more work is required, and nobody is
   being paid to this any more. The new Open Source version will have a lot
   of improvements, but will also lack (at least at first) some previous
   features that can't be made into Open Source (e.g. some proprietary code
   that we licensed). But it will be free for everybody to download, install,
   use, and modify.

  Why work on Kermit 95?

     * It's retro! Experience the look and feel of computing as it was at the
       height of the timesharing era, circa 1975-95.
     * It's handmade by real programmers.
     * It is unbelievably handy for sysadmin, website development and
       administration, software development, scripting, and other backoffice
       tasks. See the Kermit Script Library for examples.
     * Kermit 95 is one of a family of programs that run on many different
       operating systems and platforms, offering a uniform and compatible
       repertoire of functions, commands, and programmability, allowing the
       same scripted procedures to operate on Windows, Linux and all other
       Unix varieties (old and new), and VMS. The basis for all these
       programs is C-Kermit, which has been evolving all these years
       since K95 was last released, so the last release of K95 lags far
       behind in its scripting capabilities. The new release (as it stands)
       is fully integrated with C-Kermit 9.0.

   --------------------------------------------------------------------------

    kermit@kermitproject.org
